A story in Egyptian oral heritage
Says that Shajarat Al-Dur
After she was overthrown by Ezzeddin Aybak
Was revolted, and decided to go get her revenge She talked to him
She seduced him into meeting her in the citadel
He went to meet her, but never returned.
Aybak's Mamluks suspected her
And did not believe her when she told them he died naturally
So they took her to his wife
whose name was Om Ali
Om Ali decided to execute her instantly
And commanded that her servants would beat Shajarat Al-Durr with their [wooden] shoes until they killed her
It is told that right then Om Ali commanded
that the best meal be prepared to celebrate the loss of Shajarat Al-Durr
The dessert was named after her
Om Ali
The dessert was made out of bread crisps, milk, and sugar
A mixture that is present in many cultures
Like bread pudding in the UK
And French toast in the US
And today we add raisins and cinnamon to the mix
and serve it in a warm tajine
to sweeten any cold winter night
Where's the best Om Ali in Egypt?
Tell us in the comments, and don't forget to like and subscribe, to see more from D-Tabkha.